Welcome to the UCR Library. I'm Judy Lee,
one of the librarians at UC Riverside.
This module covers steps to
creating a search strategy.
Start your plan of action by selecting your
topic. To do that, you may want to pull out
a sheet of paper and a pen or pencil to think
about the topic. Some people like to use concept
maps as they sketch out their ideas. A couple of
these examples are seen on the left of the slide.
Your topic should meet the requirements of your
assignment. Something to keep in mind. Hopefully
the assigned topic or one that you select will be
meaningful or of interest to you as well. You will
break up your topic into its major components,
then you will identify keywords or subject terms
that relate to those components. Be flexible
as you conduct your research. Be prepared
to tweak or adjust your topic as you find more
relevant or interesting results from your search.
You may want to incorporate what you
find as you refine your strategy.
If you can consider alternatives to your original
topic as a backup plan. The general procedure
is to use logical operators as you
utilize library databases for your search
and that includes the library catalog. These
logical operators are also known as boolean
operators. They will connect the search terms
that lay within each component of your search
such as keywords. The operators will
also connect the components of your topic
the most heavily used operators are "or" and
"and." How these words are used in the search
process will be different than how we use them in
conversation otherwise known as natural language.
As you can see the boolean operator "or" is
more. It puts together the terms that represent
a component as seen in this venn diagram. "Or"
can enlarge the search set of a component.
The term "colleges" and the term "universities"
can be synonyms that represent the same idea.
On the other hand the boolean
operator "and" is less
and links the search components together
and mandates that at least one turn in each
component is present in your search results
and will limit the size of the resulting set.
The results of the search should be about both
"colleges" and "first generation students."
There are time-saving additional features that
you can add to your research skills. Truncation
and wild cards allow you to say keystrokes by
using word stems to include their variations.
In these examples, truncation normally allows
for unlimited truncation while wildcards allow
for a specific number of characters to vary within
the term. Always check which symbols are used for
each database or resource as they can vary both in
the symbol used and how the symbol is interpreted.
Phrase searching is useful when the exact
word order matters in a multiple word term.
Use the quotes. By the way the third example "sa
i gu" is the Korean for four two nine or April 29,
which refers to the date of the 1992 L.A.
riots. More search tips, these frequently found
database features can help you refine your search
by applying limits or filters to it. In using a
database or resource for the first time, spend a
little time to become familiar with the features
that are available to you. Before you head over
to a database to start your search, let's step
back a little and consider different types of
searches just to get a bit of the bigger picture.
Pearl growing sometimes you can start with a
clue or one piece of information that can lead
you to other resources. This investigative
action can grow your research much like the
grain of sand into a pearl. For example, you may
be talking to your instructor about your topic
and she remembers an article that she came
across. She gives you the citation to it.
Even before you track it down. You can also
search for this known item in a database.
If you find it there, the database can
provide you with the terms that describe
the article whether they be in the abstract as
keywords or possible leads to subject terms.
If specialized vocabulary is involved then knowing
the language of the discipline can be important.
Also if you find a key citation to a work you
can use citation chaining to your advantage.
So who cited this resource? Could it be that
the citing work is also about the same topic and
that it might be useful for you? This is another
approach to link forward in time to other items
that is forward from that original item.
Let's move on, excessive fractions,
here's another approach which you can
think of as researching in chunks.
You can start with a very broad topic and
narrow it down by scanning the results and
using what you discover to refine your search.
This way you let the literature or what's out
there guide you into refining your topic. It's
one way of researching your way into the topic.
By the way, if you only have a general idea of a
topic and haven't quite decided how to narrow it
down, browsing the literature in this way as
preliminary work is another method to create
a search strategy. In this example, we start with
the very broad topic of Set A "college admissions"
then based on the results we moved
to a narrower search in Set B
"college admissions in public universities."
Although these results could still be very large.
From there we can move to the more narrow
topic of Set C "college admissions of first
generation students in public universities."
The next type of search is what we typically
think of when we conduct searches and which
illustrate the use of boolean operators.
Building blocks, if you have already
identified your topic and its components,
it is time to put the similar terms together
that represent each component then connect
the search components together using the boolean
operators. In this example we see the terms used.
Note the use of truncation as well as phrase
searching in our strategy. Also note the use
of parentheses for search Component A which is
really more of an exceptional case than the rule.
These parentheses are used for nested logic
which gives you control to determine the order
of the search operations. In this case,
we put together the concepts of "college"
and "admissions" with "and" and then add in the
exact phrase "college admissions" by using "or"
to include it. Databases have search boxes
that tend to work for each component where
the terms are linked together by the same boolean
operator. These parentheses or nested logic would
allow you to mix the boolean operators in the
same search box to get your desired results.
What we want here is the intersection
of the three components or search sets
as represented by that small
shaded area in the diagram.
Look at the questions in the slide. What
if our results are too small to be useful
or even contain zero results? Well take heart.
This is where you try to be creative, flexible,
and have an alternative plan. In this example,
instead of the results of the three components
can the intersection of two of the search
components produce results that you can use?
Such as the intersections of Sets A and C or B
and C or A and B. That is "college admissions"
and "first generation students" or "public
universities" and "first generation students"
or "college admissions" and" public universities."
Might some of these resulting articles provide you
with evidence that you could use in your paper?
Can you think of other terms to add to your
search? Maybe you can make one of the search
components larger by adding terms with or
can you uncover other work from one of your
researcher names that might help with your topic?
What about other work from one of the co-authors?
Can you switch out a component in your search with
an alternative component that you've considered
for example instead of
"first generation students,"
what if you use other categories of students
such as undocumented students or veterans?
As you can see, the search
process is an evolving one.
Your final topic for your paper may turn out
to be different from your original topic.
Think, consider your topic and the terms you will
use. Search, try your search in an appropriate
database for your topic. Review, examine the
retrieved results. Are there useful citations?
Are there additional terms or other information
to incorporate into your search strategy?
Refine, incorporate additional information
to revise your strategy. Research,
try out the revised strategy to see
if the search results have improved.
Think about these steps and be prepared
to dip into a database or resource
more than once, as your search strategy
evolves. Maybe that's why it's called re-search.
Some people think that the search process is
a straight line. That one could put search
terms into a database get some results
and then be done. Is this likely to be
a perfect search? It can happen depending on how
the search is constructed, but that is not always
the case. Think back about your own experiences
with academic work or for personal research.
We can think of the research process and the
resulting search strategy as being cyclical over
time. It's really more like a stretched out slinky
than a direct straight line. For more information
on using the library's resources or your
options for help and research assistant,
please consult the library's website.
Thank you and good luck with your research!